>> Jem Young: So now we're gonna log in.
We're gonna log in to your
very own personal server.
All right, this is confusing so
I'm gonna break it down for you.
ssh, we know what that does,
it's a way of logging in to a server.
-i means identity,
it's saying I wanna use this specific
private key to log in to the server.
>> Jem Young: This first
part is your username so
right now your root because we don't have
a user, so it's always gonna be root.
And then paste in your SERVER_IP
>> Jem Young: So
give everybody a minute to go ahead and
do that and
then I will demonstrate
>> Jem Young: how to do it?
So if you're already
in your SSH directory,
you don't have to do the ~/.ssh/my_key,
you can just say my_key, okay?
So I'm just gonna go ahead and
demonstrate this, clear ssh
and pwd stands for print working
directory just tells me where I am.
Pwd always gets me because I think
password every single time but
it's print working directory.
And just tells me I'm in ssh directory.
So I'm just gonna say ssh-i my_key,
think it's 2.
And we're not using the public key, we're
using the private key on this instance so
we don't have a .pub.
And on roots at,
this is my server IP address but
you're gonna have your own obviously.
>> Jem Young: And just say yes, what it's
gonna do is it makes a fingerprint of
the server and if that server ever changes
the fingerprint changes it's gonna warn
you every single time.
Question?
>> Speaker 2: They're just asking
with the -i does in that command.
>> Jem Young: Yes, -i stands for identity,
it's just saying I want to use this key.
Your particular private key
to log in to your server.
>> Speaker 2: And then another question
was about when they're getting this
authenticity of the fingerprint
message for the first time,
do you just want to explain that to them?
>> Jem Young: Yes, so let me see if I
can find that, let me exit out of here.
>> Jem Young: Ta-da, there we go.
So we can look at the known host file.
>> Jem Young: Known hosts is a file on
your computer kind of like a cache of
places you've connected to with a specific
fingerprint to that specific server.
So just like DNS cache poisoning,
someone could also trick your IP and
you could hijack someone's computer.
And when you hijack,
say my server and I'm sh-ing in.
If that identity ever changes,
your computer will let you know.
Because now at this point,
we're sending through our private key and
if someone steals your private key, then,
well, they can get into all your stuff,
especially if you're using your sh key.
So that authentication screen where
it says this is your identity,
do you wanna connect?
If you're ever connected to
a server that you know and
love and that comes up, you should say no.
Because it shouldn't ever say that
unless the server has changed and
then your administrator will tell
you that the server has changed.
But that's a good tip, beware of that,
let me just highlight that one more time.
Yeah, so if you're connected to
a server over ssh and this comes up and
you're not familiar with why it's there?
As in you don't know why
the service changed, say no.
Because again, we're sending our
private key, over the wire this time.
Okay?
So.
>> Speaker 2: Typing it yes adds
it to the known host file, right?
>> Jem Young: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: That's just kinda what.
>> Jem Young: Yeah.
And it's a good security so
that way, again,
if that server ever changes unexpectedly,
your computer will let you know before
it sends over your private key.